# Ambulance-service
The Ambulance emergency service app is designed to have a variety of features. Booking an ambulance is now faster and hassle-free. In a situation, like the one demonstrated above, using this app to book your ambulance is more preferable than wasting crucial time by calling up the ambulance drivers individually.
1 Introduction
     As we listened the word ‘Ambulance’ the first thing comes to mind is the rescue process. In the modern era where the population is increasing day by day, people feel uncomfortable and frightened due to danger aspects of road accidents, some known and unknown disease which required the quickly treatment but unfortunately due to couple of minute delay some important lives are lost. Therefore, to give the quick first-aid to the patient rescue system of every country should be maintained and trained well for the betterment of human beings and to avoid the deaths which occur due to delay in rescue process. So our first goal is to maintain the ambulance service system first by making android application for the rescue process. It will provide all the rescue centers to stand on one platform through ambulance service application. In case of any accident we call an ambulance for help via call. There are many organizations which provide ambulance services in Pakistan. But there is a problem with these organizations that they did not work together. So that, when there an accident occur people call for ambulance of specific organization like ‘Eidhi’, ‘Cheepa’, ‘Rescue 1122’, ‘FIF’ etc. There can be possibility that the ambulance of that organization will not available near the place of accident. So this application will help people to find ambulance near them of any organization. We have proposed an android app namely Ambulance Management System (AMS).

User will properly sign up in the app with his mobile and CNIC number for authentication so that irrelevant person will not use this app without any reason. In case of emergency he will request for an ambulance made from his phone that will be directly updated on a centralized main office where 24/7 server will automatically check his request, calculate coordinates and will check the availability of ambulance in very nearly station, if there is no ambulance available in that station, then server will check up next near station and response back to the user that request is in progress and how much time it takes to reach, and from which station. All this process and management will be handled virtually using defined algorithm. The whole history will maintain on server side. When task is done then status and number of ambulance will be updated on sever.

1.2 Business Problem
The objective of this app is to provide a user friendly environment. In the era of the modern technology, there is no application available for smart phone users in Pakistan, which helps them to request for an ambulance.

1.3 Solution Approach:
There should be an android based ambulance management system through which we can improve ambulance service system. So we have tried to enhance the capabilities of a management system by linking an android app with web based platform in which user can check its request’s status and admin maintain things and view user’s history. It will be a totally free of cost app.

1.4 Project Oversight
The Admin and developer will be responsible to manage the system. The admin can do the processes of modification, cancellation and some other issues which can affect the system. The admin can also take the decision of changing the app design and can also demand from the developer to extent some internal features of app which can be handy
